Authors - extracts author information from news articles or blog posts. Author extraction enables the categorization of content from online publications by author, and can be used with other AlchemyLanguage functions to generate tag clouds, identify sentiment towards topics and authors, and so on.
Concepts - identifes concepts with which the input text is associated, based on other concepts and entities that are present in that text. Concept-related API functions understand how concepts relate, and can identify concepts that are not directly referenced in the text. For example, if an article mentions CERN and the Higgs boson, the Concepts API functions will identify Large Hadron Collider as a concept even if that term is not mentioned explicitly in the page. Concept tagging enables higher level analysis of input content than just basic keyword identification.
Dates - extracts natural language date/time expressions from text, normalizes them to an ISO date string (such as "20040104T000000"), and identifies concepts with which those dates are associated.
Emotion Analysis - detects anger, disgust, fear, joy, and sadness implied in English text. Emotion Analysis can detect emotions that are associated with targeted phrases, entities, or keywords, or it can analyze the overall emotional tone of your content.
Entities - returns items such as persons, places, and organizations that are present in the input text. Entity extraction adds semantic knowledge to content to help understand the subject and context of the text that is being analyzed. The entity extraction technniques used by the AlchemyLanguage service are based on sophisticated statistical algorithms and natural language processing technology, and are unique in the industry with their support for multilingual analysis, context-sensitive disambiguation, and quotations extraction. You can specify a custom model in your request to identify a custom set of entity types in your content, enabling domain-specific entity extraction.
Feeds - extracts any links to web feeds that are embedded in a web page. Web feeds are often embedded in websites to enable automated access to syndicated content. Any feeds that are detected can subsequently be used to discover new content, such as blog posts, news articles, and comment streams.
Keywords - important topics in your content that are typically used when indexing data, generating tag clouds, or when searching. The AlchemyLanguage service automatically identifies supported languages (see the next bullet) in your input content, and then identifies and ranks keywords in that content. Sentiment can also be associated with each keyword by using the AlchemyLanguage sentiment analysis capabilities.
Language - detects the natural language in which input text, HTML, or web-based content is written. Language identification functions can identify English, German, French, Italian, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish and Swedish. These functions enable applications to categorize or filter content based on the language in which it was written.
Microformats - processes microformat information that is included in the HTML of some webpages to add semantic information and to enable easier scanning and processing of those pages by software. The information extracted from web pages by the Microformats method can be used for tasks such as webpage categorization and content discovery.
Publication Date - extracts publication date information, if present, from web pages. The date on which a web page was published can be critical when analyzing trends based on text attributes, such as when tracking changing sentiment towards specific topics, products, or brands. The Publication Date API functions understand most date formats, can identify publication dates in different portions of a document, and can differentiate between the publication date of a page and other dates that may be embedded in its content.
Relations - identifies subject, action, and object relations within sentences in the input content. After parsing sentences into subject, action, and object form, the Relation Extraction API functions can use this information for subsequent processing by other AlchemyLanguage functions such as entity extraction, keyword extraction, sentiment analysis, and location identification. Relation information can be used to automatically identify buying signals, key events, and other important actions.
Typed Relations - uses custom models to recognize entities in content, and identifies various types of relations between those entities. The types of entities and relations that can be identified are properties of the custom model that is specified. With the public custom model ie-en-news, Typed Relations can identify entities and relations related to the news domain. For example, given the input "Leonardo DiCaprio won an Oscar," a request using ie-en-news will recognize "Leonardo Dicaprio" as a "Person" entity and "Oscar" as an "EntertainmentAward" entity, and it will recognize an "awardedTo" relation that exists between those entities.
Sentiment - identifies attitude, opinions, or feelings in the content that is being analyzed. The AlchemyLanguage service can calculate overall sentiment within a document, sentiment for user-specified targets, entity-level sentiment, quotation-level sentiment, directional-sentiment, and keyword-level sentiment. The combination of these capabilities supports a variety of use cases ranging from social media monitoring to trend analysis.
Taxonomy - categorizes input text, HTML or web-based content into a hierarchical taxonomy up to five levels deep. Deeper levels allow you to classify content into more accurate and useful subsegments. The AlchemyLanguage taxonomy methods use an enhanced version of the standard Interactive Advertising Bureau Quality Assurance Guidelines Taxonomy, extending that taxonomy to over 1000 categories for superior audience targeting and information routing.
To download or view a PDF file that provides a hierarchical view of the enhanced taxonomy that is used by the AlchemyLanguage API, click here. To download or view a CSV file that provides an editable version of all tiers in this enhanced taxonomy, click here.
Text Extraction - AlchemyLanguage cleans source text from html in each API method by default. This includes normalizing HTML content, removing ads, navigation links, and other unimportant content so that only the important page text is returned.
Title Extraction - Extracts title information from web pages.